adding a page on web standards (#802)
denoland/docs: runtime/fundamentals/web_standards.md

---
title: "Web Standards and Node APIs"
---

Deno aims to bridge the gap between the browser and the backend with a set of

> web standard APIs that are familiar to web developers. These APIs are designed

Reviewer: this sounds a little roundabout- maybe something along these lines: "Deno aims to narrow the gap between browser and server-side JavaScript by providing the exact same web standard APIs available client side in the server. This means if you know how to program a browser, you already know how to program Deno."

to be compatible with the web platform, making it easier to write code that can
run in both the browser and Deno.

Existing Node.js ecosystem compatibility is provided through a set of Node.js

> compatible APIs and Deno namespace APIs. These APIs are designed to be

Reviewer: Deno namespace APIs don't contribute to Node ecosystem compatibility

Author: oh yeah, sorry leftover from an attempt to merge that and the paragraph below, removed.

> Existing Node.js ecosystem compatibility is provided through a set of Node.js
> compatible APIs and Deno namespace APIs. These APIs are designed to be
> compatible with Node.js, making it easier to port existing Node.js code to Deno.

Reviewer 2: The phrasing seems to suggest that the `Deno` namespace APIs help with node compatibility. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Existing Node.js ecosystem compatibility is provided through a built-in compatibility layer that allows you to use any npm package directly in Deno.
```

Deno also provides its global namespace APIS, to empower developers with

> low-level capabilities, often essential for system-level tasks.

Reviewer: Deno also provides its own Deno specific APIs, accessible under the `Deno` global variable that are performant, simple ways to do server-side only operations.

## Web Platform APIs

If you’ve ever built for the browser, you’re already on familiar ground. Deno
supports standard web APIs (like fetch, WebSockets, and more) instead of
proprietary alternatives. This means your existing web knowledge can be used in

> your Deno projects.

Reviewer 2: Love this!

For more information about the web platform APIs, see the

> [Web Platform APIs](/runtime/reference/web_platform_apis/) documentation.

Reviewer: this would be a good place to discuss spec deviations and other content contained in https://docs.deno.com/runtime/reference/web_platform_apis/

## Node.js Compatibility and APIs

Deno’s Node.js compatibility isn’t about replacing Node, it’s about coexistence.
Developers can gradually migrate their projects, leveraging Deno’s security
features and built in tooling while benefiting from Node.js libraries. Many
Node.js libraries are battle-tested and widely used. Deno’s compatibility allows
developers to reuse this code seamlessly. No need for a complete rewrite—just
import your favorite Node.js modules.

For more information about Node.js compatibility, see the

> [Node.js Compatibility](/runtime/reference/node/) documentation.

Reviewer: This could be more exact. Instead of "Node.js Compatibility and APIs", I would call it "Node built-in APIs" the description could explain "these are imports that are prefixed with `node:`, like `node:fs`. They operate exactly as in Node"

I would image to find this content here: https://docs.deno.com/runtime/reference/node/#node.js-built-ins

> ## Deno Namespace APIs

Reviewer: Just "Deno APIs" or "Deno specific APIs"

There isn't much meat to this section yet...
